and we're out in the middle exchanging
international compliments and meeting
the referee dienst of Switzerland
you might call this the moment of truth
for Alf Ramsey is three years of team
building picked off coming up for its
crucial test England looked unfamiliar
in their red shirts long shots gave
banks no char
and what a test for the 22 star players
90 minutes away from the game's highest
glory or defeat
in possession with that all around
player CD helps moving into a position
spelling danger for England banks
alerted
the with German attack had bitin purpose
on they came again an English defensive
left gave the border holla and that was
it
one down after 12 minutes per be English
attack no time for lethargy or half
measures they swept into German
territory till Kowski cleared only to
put bobby charlton in position
another five days there was no stopping
England this time a chance came to West
Ham's Geoff Hurst if he cries
splendidly matched these teams general
top scorer America the charts
fortunately Gordon banks anticipated he
shot
England piled on the pressure Bobby
Charlton inspired a movement which with
just a little mala could have put
England Emily a big sigh of relief for
West Germany when the ball was clear
they was faithfully reflected by the
score one or
brief let up in the tension came as
welcome relief for both English and
German supporters
I've as England kicked off playing right
to left and quickly built up an attack
excitement made the wind we atmosphere
electric England had to score and if the
prayers of millions could inspire them
surely a girl was not far off
the west german defence was like a stone
wall again England launched an offensive
and again the German blockade could not
be Kemet rated they swung to the other
end West Germany's threaten the English
goal but banks playing brilliantly was
in position to the away
the ball goes to bobby charlton
charlton to hunt on the lip
despite strong challenge rats the
English Defence could not be record
for the wembley thousands and millions
of home ones or victory
by their 2-1 lead played like a team
inspired adventure win
in the dying minutes of the match the
jubilant English supporters nerves were
strained to breaking point the world cup
was within England's reach if only they
could keep the lead for a few desperate
minutes against the West Germans now a
team playing now hops out to keep in the
running
Germany would not live up then seconds
before the final whistle agony for
England biggest score it had to be extra
time
the first period of extra time proved to
the pole the value of Ramses training
methods England again with a figure and
speed astounding after the grueling 90
minutes late already played Charlton and
his hello sharpshooters came back time
after time in the Ramsey Sturridge
believing that with sustained attack the
goals must come then Geoff Hurst cool
and collected had the ball in the net no
it bounced out cold claimed England let
me go protest you to Germany's
the referee consulted the linesman wood
beam in line with the posts and
colleague was
England's late again 32 now and in spite
of the German attacks early in the final
period of extra time Bobby boys men had
thrown off all signs of tiredness it was
West Germany who are now noticeably the
slower team
when there was only a minute to go
England still had no thought of being
content with that one goal lead recently
the whistle Geoff Hurst saw an opening
in the defense and achieve that
jimmy greaves out to the side through
injury is set the example for the other
reserves by congratulating the
victorious player
Bobby Moore living them up to the Royal
Box to receive the jewelry makeup and
the winners medals to be here as winners
of the FA Cup has often been described
as the summit of a footballer's ambition
much greater with the triumph they
enjoyed now
three years ago how frenzied set out on
the hard road that led to the World Cup
only the optimists thought he could
possibly fatigue certainly not West
Germany whose team now ran a lap of
honour they were very sporting loser but
it was England
love of sports was now cheering